Hyperspectral satellite imaging is a mature technology that captures a very detailed spectrum of light for each pixel (usually more than a hundred bands). Instead of assigning primary colors (red, green, and blue) to each pixel, HSI analyses a broad spectrum of light. To provide further detail about what is imaged, the light striking each pixel is broken down into several different spectral bands. With so much reflectance data about the underlying content, accurate HSI pixel-by-pixel classification and segmentation is possible. As a result, HSI is widely used in a variety of fields, including precision agriculture, military operations, and surveillance.

This project is focused on the development of a Deep Neural Network for landcover classification in hyperspectral images. Land-cover classification is the task of assigning to every pixel, a class label that represents the type of land-cover. The majority of current studies and research activities are focused on the creation of complex handcrafted features, which is the traditional pattern recognition model.

However, determining which characteristics are important for the problem at hand is unusual. In comparison to these methods, a deep learning-based classification method is proposed that automates the hierarchical construction of high-level features. In this project, a Convolutional Neural Network is used to encode the spectral and spatial information of pixels, and a Multi-Layer Perceptron is used to perform the classification task
